# 100ms SDK Flutter Quickstart Guide

## Overview
<br>
This overview shows the major steps involved in creating a demo project with the 100ms SDK. Each section links to extra detail.
<br><br>

Here are some sample apps demonstrating this.
<br><br>

<a>Simplest implementaion.</a>

<a>Most full-featured implementation.</a>
<br><br>
Jump to a section you're interested in or read top down to get the overview</a>

- <a>Getting the video call joining link</a>

- <a>Add the sdk dependencies.</a>

- <a>Create a login token to authenticate the user</a></a>

- <a>Add permissions</a>

- <a>Create an instance of the `HMSSDK`</a>

- <a>Show an optional of the user's audio video with the 100ms `hmssdk.preview`</a>

- <a>Call `hmssdk.join` with the video call link to join the call</a>

- <a>Know when people join or leave</a>

- <a>How to render audio/video</a>

- <a>Listening to updates effectively</a>

<br>

---

<br><br>
## Prerequisites

Familiarity with the <a>fundamentals</a> of flutter apps.
<br><br>


### Getting the video call joining link
<br>
To join a video call you need an authentication token and a room id. Or a server that will translate the link into them. The <a>100ms Dashboard</a> is one way to generate these auth tokens. In production your own server will generate these and manage user authentication.<br>
<br>
Links created by the dashboard will stop working after 10k minutes of video calls. You'll need to setup your own server after.<br>
<br>

For the purposes of this quickstart you can rely on just the 100ms dashboard. Sign up for the 100ms Dashboard <a>here</a>.

From either the dashboard, or your own server once implemented, you need to generate a video call link. Video call links generated by the 100ms Dashboard look like `https://myname.app.100ms.live/meeting/correct-horse-battery`.

<br>
⚙️ &nbsp;&nbsp; For Production <br>
<br>

With your own server for authentication and link generation, the format of the link is up to you.

<br>

### Add SDK dependencies
Add the `hmssdk_flutter` plugin in dependencies of pubspec.yaml

```dart: #pubspec.yaml

dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter

  hmssdk_flutter:
```

### Login
### Request

Here's how to get an auth token with 100ms's demo authentication

1. Sign up to the dashboard.
2. Get your video call link. It should look like `https://myname.app.100ms.live/meeting/correct-horse-battery`
Send an http post request to `https://prod-in.100ms.live/hmsapi/get-token`
3. With the header "subdomain" set to `myname.app.100ms.live` if your link was `https://myname.app.100ms.live/meeting/correct-horse-battery`
4. For a link of the type `https://myname.app.100ms.live/meeting/correct-horse-battery` The body is json with the format `{"code": "correct-horse-battery", "user_id":"your-customer-id" }` the user_id can be any random string as well and you can create it with `UUID.randomUUID().toString()`


<br>
⚙️ &nbsp;&nbsp; For Production <br>
<br>

Maybe you won't use links at all. You will need to generate tokens on the backend, and rooms for users. Look up the Token Setup Guide here.
<br>

### Response
The 100ms server will respond with an auth token like this <span style="color:blue">`{"token":"some-token-string"}`</span>.

### Android Permissions
Camera, Recording Audio and Internet permissions are required. Add them to your AndroidManifest.xml.

```xml:
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />

```

You will also need to request Camera and Record Audio permissions at runtime before you join a call or display a preview. Please follow `Android Documentation` for runtime permissions.

### Join a Video Call

To join a video call, call join method on HMSMeeting with the config settings. To listen the updates, call addMeetingListener on HMSMeeting.

These are some listener's callback functions:

`onJoin` - called when the join was successful and you have entered the room.

* 💡 Audio will be automatically connected, video requires some work on your side.

`onPeerUpdate` - called when a person joins or leaves the call and when their audio/video mutes/unmutes.

`onTrackUpdate` - usually when a person joins the call, the listener will first call `onPeerUpdate` to notify about the join. Subsequently `onTrackUpdate` will be called with their actual video track.

* 💡It's essential that this callback is listened to or you may have peers without video.

```dart

_meeting = HMSMeeting();
 _meeting.joinMeeting(config: this.config);
 _meeting.addMeetingListener(listener);

 class AppUpdateListener extends HMSUpdateListener{
  @override
  void onError({required HMSError error}) {}

  @override
  void onJoin({required HMSRoom room}) {}

  @override
  void onMessage({required HMSMessage message}) {}

  @override
  void onPeerUpdate({required HMSPeer peer, required HMSPeerUpdate update}) {}

  @override
  void onReconnected() {}

  @override
  void onReconnecting() {}

  @override
  void onRoleChangeRequest({required HMSRoleChangeRequest roleChangeRequest}) {}

  @override
  void onRoomUpdate({required HMSRoom room, required HMSRoomUpdate update}) {}

  @override
  void onTrackUpdate({required HMSTrack track, required HMSTrackUpdate trackUpdate, required HMSPeer peer}) {}

  @override
  void onUpdateSpeakers({required List<HMSSpeaker> updateSpeakers}) {}
  
}
```

### How you know when people join or leave
The join method takes an interface called `HMSUpdateListener`. It lets you know when peers join and leave the call, mute/unmute their audio and video and lots more.

The `HMSUpdateListener` has a callback to notify about people joining or leaving. It is `onPeerUpdate(type: HMSPeerUpdate, peer: HMSPeer)`.

* 💡HMSPeer is object that represents a person in the call.

<br>

### How to render audio and video

The SDK plays the audio for every person who joins the call. Audio will begin playing when join succeeds. To see the person's video you need to create an instance of HMSVideoView with height and width in arguments.

### Showing Videos

A peer represents one person in the video call.

A peer's video track is in hmsPeer.videoTrack. ScreenShares can be found in auxilary tracks of peer i.e the auxiliary tracks is a list of tracks, one of which can be a ScreenShare if they have chosen to share their screen.

```dart
peer.auxiliaryTracks
          ?.where((each) => each.kind == HMSTrackKind.kHMSTrackKindVideo);
```

## Where to go from here

Checkout the <a href="https://github.com/100mslive/100ms-flutter/tree/main/example">simple version</a> of the project.

Also a full featured <a href="https://github.com/100mslive/100ms-flutter">advanced version</a>.

## Glossary
- `Room`: When you join a particular video call, all the peers said to be in a video call `room`
- `Track`: Media. Can be the audio track or the video track.
- `Peer`: One participant in the video call. Local peers are you, remote peers are others.
- `Broadcast`: Chat messages are broadcasts.
