## HMSSDK Sample App

Clone the example app from [here](https://github.com/100mslive/100ms-flutter/tree/main).
*"example"* folder contains code relevant to the example app.

> 🔑 Note: This uses provider as the state management library

## Features in sample app

Sample application contains all the features provided by `HMSSDK`. Just to name a few:

* 🙏 Join a room
* 🎞 Join with preview
* 👋 Leave room
* 🙊 Mute/Unmute local audio
* 🙈 Mute/Unmute local video
* 🖖 Mute Audio/Video for other roles and peers
* 🎞 Display video tracks
* 🔁 Change role
* 📨 Chat messaging
* 📲 Screen share
* 🎶 Audio share
* 🔊 Audio output routing
* 🙋‍♂️ Hand Raise
* 🏃‍♀️ BRB(Be Right Back sign)

## Sample app architecture

Sample app uses provider as it's state management library.We have created separate `changeNotifier` classes namely:

* PreviewStore for Preview
* MeetingStore for Meeting room
* PeerTrackNode for individual peers

### PreviewStore

Preview Store acts as a data store for preview page.It implements `HMSPreviewListener` and `HMSLogListener` to get their callbacks by overriding their methods.

```dart
class PreviewStore extends ChangeNotifier
    implements HMSPreviewListener, HMSLogListener {}
```

### MeetingStore

Meeting Store acts as a data store for meeting page.It implements `HMSUpdateListener`,`HMSActionResultListener` and `HMSStatsListener` to get their callbacks by overriding their methods.

```dart
class MeetingStore extends ChangeNotifier
    with WidgetsBindingObserver
    implements HMSUpdateListener, HMSActionResultListener, HMSStatsListener {}
```

### PeerTrackNode

PeerTrackNode acts as a data store for each peer.One peerTrackNode object contains info about one peer.We are using this 
so that the update related to a peer are not transmitted to other peers.It contains info about peer,track,their on screen status etc.

```dart
class PeerTrackNode extends ChangeNotifier {
  HMSPeer peer;
  String uid;
  HMSVideoTrack? track;
  HMSAudioTrack? audioTrack;
  bool isOffscreen;
  int? networkQuality;
  RTCStats? stats;
}
```

## Deep Dive into features

Let's dive deeper into each feature and their implementation.

#### 1. Join a room

`HMSSDK` provides join room method to join the room.`join` method requires `HMSConfig` as a parameter used while joining the room.
Before calling join method it's recommended to attach the `HMSUpdateListener` So that once join is successful we can get the callbacks.`HMSUpdateListener` can be attached as follows:

```dart
//We can use this since the MeetingStore class implements 
//HMSUpdateListener
HMSSDK.addUpdateListener(listener: this);
```
Methods which needs to be overriden while implementing `HMSUpdateListener` can be found [here](https://www.100ms.live/docs/flutter/v2/features/update-listeners)

Now we are good to go for the join method.Let's look at the `HMSConfig` class first:

```dart
class HMSConfig {

  ///[userName] you want in the room you join.
  final String userName;

  ///[authToken] generated by 100ms servers.
  final String authToken;

  ///[metaData] any additional information you'd like to specify for the peer.
  final String? metaData;

  ///[endPoint] where you have to make post request to get token.
  final String? endPoint;

  final bool shouldSkipPIIEvents;

  ///[captureNetworkQualityInPreview] to capture the network quality in preview
  final bool captureNetworkQualityInPreview;
}
```

We need to pass `HMSConfig` object to the join method while joining the room.

```dart
HMSSDK.join(config: config)
```
If join is successful we will get `onJoin` callback and in case of error we will get `onHMSError` callback.So the UI can be handled accordingly.

Let's understand `onJoin` method and what is expected to be done in this callback.
So,`onJoin` callback contains the `HMSRoom` object which can be used to get the recording/streaming state of the room along with list of peers in the room.The `HMSRoom` object has following info: 

```dart
class HMSRoom {
  ///[id] of the room
  String id;
  ///[name] the name of this room
  String? name;
  String? metaData;
  HMSBrowserRecordingState? hmsBrowserRecordingState;
  HMSRtmpStreamingState? hmsRtmpStreamingState;
  HMSServerRecordingState? hmsServerRecordingState;
  HMSHLSStreamingState? hmshlsStreamingState;
  HMSHLSRecordingState? hmshlsRecordingState;
  int peerCount;
  int startedAt;
  String sessionId;

  ///[peers] list that are present in this room currently
  final List<HMSPeer>? peers;
}
```

We can extract the peers from the  `peers` list and set it accordingly.More information about how this should be handled can be found in `onJoin` method [here](https://github.com/100mslive/100ms-flutter/blob/main/example/lib/data_store/meeting_store.dart)

#### 2. Join a room with preview

In some use cases it is required to show preview before joining the room so that the user can set the camera , audio device,mic.
HMSSDK provides `preview` method which can be called before `join`.With preview included the subsequent join request becomes faster.

The `preview` method also requires the config object similar to `join` method.Before calling `preview` it is
recommended to attach `HMSPreviewListener` So that we can get the callbacks related to preview.

```dart
//We can use this since the PreviewStore class implements 
//HMSPreviewListener
HMSSDK.addPreviewListener(listener: this);
```
Methods which needs to be overriden while implementing `HMSUpdateListener` can be found [here](https://www.100ms.live/docs/flutter/v2/features/preview-update-listeners).
After attaching `HMSPreviewListener` we are good to call `preview` method.

```dart
HMSSDK.preview(config: config);
```
Similar to `onJoin` here we have `onPreview` callback which gets called when `preview` gets succeeded and `onHMSError` in case the `preview` fails.

After preview  `join` method can be called similar to the steps mentioned above in [1](#1-join-a-room).

#### 3. Leave Room

`HMSSDK` provides `leave` method to leave the room.`leave` method
has an optional parameter `HMSActionResultListener` which provides callbacks as `onSuccess` for successful execution and 
`onException` in case of error.
More info on `HMSActionResultListener` can be found [here](https://www.100ms.live/docs/flutter/v2/features/action-result-listeners)

`leave` method can be called as:

```dart
//`this` is used here since MeetingStore already implements 
//HMSActionResultListener
HMSSDK.leave(hmsActionResultListener:this);
```

We will get `onSuccess` callback if `leave` is successful so that we can perform complete cleanup of resources and `onException` in case of error.

#### 4. Mute/Unmute local audio
 
Audio mute/unmute can be performed using `switchAudio` method
of `HMSSDK`

```dart
// [isOn] is the current audio state
HMSSDK.switchAudio(isOn: isOn);
```

#### 5. Mute/Unmute local video

Video mute/unmute can be performed using `switchVideo` method
of `HMSSDK`

```dart
// [isOn] is the current state video state
HMSSDK.switchVideo(isOn: isOn);
```

#### 6. Mute Audio/Video for other roles and peers

`HMSSDK` provides dedicated methods to mute/unmute:
- Individual peer
- Specific role
- Everyone

Let's look at each of them:

- Individual peer

We can use the `changeTrackState` method to mute/unmute remote peer's audio/video

```dart
// [forRemoteTrack] : track whose state needs to be changed
// Set [mute] to true if the track needs to be muted, false otherwise.
HMSSDK.changeTrackState(
        forRemoteTrack: forRemoteTrack,
        mute: mute,
        hmsActionResultListener: hmsActionResultListener);
```


